{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh7800\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\f1\i \cf2 Tell me a bit about this piece on this vinyl record;\'a0\
How did it first come to mind ?\'a0\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\i0 \cf2 LEAH\
Several years ago, I started making contact microphone records in science laboratories\'97mostly in a variety of physics labs, but a few other branches of science as well. The contact microphones act as a kind of stethoscope to listen to the inner workings of the machines, bringing out warmer and more internal sounds than you might except from some equipment performing a repetitive or esoteric mechanical or computer-driven task.\'a0\
\
I wanted to use these sounds to make sound pieces that somehow imagined these machines away from their everyday workings, and to use them to create an entirely invisible yet physical space created solely from sound.\
\
To aid me in doing so, I also recorded some synthesizers, myself making some vocal sounds, and some other performative sounds in-studio. This gave me a little more variety of sound to work with, allowing for a more intricate and interesting narrative.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\i \cf2 \'a0\
What qualities were you after in this piece ? How did you arrive at them ?\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\i0 \cf2 I wanted to make the space created by the sound to shift, constantly: from dense to empty, vast to small, far away to close up\'97a changing narrative with no definitive resolution.\'a0I had read a theory in quantum physics that true empty space is not actually empty, but is instead quite dense and turbulent. I found this paradox quite striking, and\'a0wanted to make a sound piece that was both empty and dense at the same time :\'a0fluctuating between the two, but also, at moments, hopefully embodying both.\
\
I also wanted it to sound as emotional as it does mechanical.\'a0 My sound pieces often seem anxious; I think it's partially a way to immediately\'a0engage a listener and ask them to come to terms with a new sound environment, but is also a bit of a reflection of my own personality. For me, sound conveys an internal, abstract narrative. I like to make that narrative tangible and palpable, but for it to also remain invisible. Combining a lot of different textures and letting them slowly evolve, influence each other, and change completely without the listener really noticing anything has "happened" is one main goal with these pieces, and is done through a lot of editing and re-editing! \'a0\'a0\
\
\'a0\
\
\
\
What is most important for you when producing sound works ?\'a0\
\
I think the most important thing for me in my sound work is, really, creating a very complex narrative that does not resolve in any definitive way. For a long time, I've been drawn to narratives where nothing really "happens"\'97narratives that somehow redefine what an "event" can be. Sound is the perfect medium for this, because it can be so non-representational while also remaining firmly rooted in physical reality and experience.\
\'a0\
\
When do you know that a work has finally coalesced (see how I didn't say 'finished' :)\
\
I know a work is done when I listen over and over and nothing jumps out or feels out of place, jarring, or awkward. Because I want the narrative to evolve almost unnoticed, nothing should really feel too surprising. That said, I also have to be careful that it doesn't get boring, that sections don't go on for too long, and that, altogether, it's an elaborate experience of listening. It's all intuitive, ultimately, but those are the main things I listen for when I'm starting to feel like a piece is coming together.\'a0\
\
\
STEPHEN\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\i \cf2 Tell me a bit about this piece on this vinyl record;\'a0\
How did it first come to mind ?\'a0\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\i0 \cf2 At Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond where I teach, a PhD student, John Priestley, invited me on a couple of occasions to do some source recordings using the University\'92s gamelan. I went for the experience, more than anything, fearing that the sounds would be too distinctly recognizable of another culture and another wonderful form of music that I can\'92t replicate in any honest way. I love the process of recording even if there\'92s no expectation that every sound or every session will be useful. That said, often simple ideas lead to surprises \'a0\'96 when you have little expectation and discover something in the process. \
\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\i \cf2 What qualities were you after in this piece ? How did you arrive at them ?\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\i0 \cf2 After a while we started playing with a bow meant for a different instrument. We were bowing the edges of the gamelan instruments, rather than striking them. Beautiful overtones were produced with beating patterns in the air as frequencies collided. Listening on headphones to the stereo separation, playing the edge of one instrument to the right and then another to the left established a rhythm but also a stereo space that felt exciting. For the catalog/record, I\'92ve also included some more aggressive moments, created by bouncing small bowls and gongs off of a drum-head. \
\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\i \cf2 What is most important for you when producing sound works?\
\pard\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\i0 \cf2 That\'92s something I\'92d probably answer differently in every context. If there are a few common points to my goals, I hope the sounds have a presence. I hope to find a way to use time and space effectively. Ideally, there\'92s a conceptual element, although I don\'92t always know it from the start. I know lots of artists who begin with an idea. I think I tend to begin with a context and hope that some sort of narrative reveals itself in the action of recording.\
\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\i \cf2 When do you know that a work has finally coalesced (see how I didn't say 'finished' :)\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\i0 \cf2 That\'92s such an internal feeling, maybe best described as a kind of emotional stability when I\'92m listening back. Sometimes you hear it on the hundredth performance or edit. Sometimes it\'92s there from the beginning. The pieces feel, to me at least, like they\'92re in the right place. I know so little about traditional composition approaches but I can only say that I get to a point where some sort of idea or tension fe
\fs28 els resolved.\
}